Blog Posts Optimization Guidelines : TechMandal

Basic SEO
Keyword Research for the post 
Tools
UberSuggest
Grammarly for Post Grammar
Google Trends
Google Keyword planner
Ahref Paid
Semrush Paid
Types
Primary Keyword
Secondary keyword
Keyword in all around the content


Primary Keyword to be present in Post TItle within the first 50 characters of the title (Google displays around 60 character of title in desktop and around 50 on mobile devices) - [Titles are in H1 tags]
Focus keyword in the Meta Description (Primary Focus Keyword only)
SEO Description is the snippet that appears just below the title in the SERP. Its job is two-fold. It gives Google and other search engines a glimpse of what the post is about, which helps them make ranking decisions. It also gives the users a reason to click through to our website rather than click to any other website.
The generated SEO Description will use data from the following areas of length from 120 to 160 characters.
Custom Meta Description Set for the post
Description Templates set in Titles and Meta settings in Rank Math
Paragraph with the focus keyword in it
Post Excerpt
The first paragraph of the content in the post
Focus keyword in the URL
Focus keyword at the beginning of the content.
Primary focus keyword to be present in the first 10% of the blog post.


Focus keyword in the content (Runs of all focus keywords)
Considers both singular and plural form of the keywords as one
Avoids Keyword Stuffing


Overall content length
Words in the post has a positive correlation with the rankings
At least 600+ words

Additional SEO
Focus keywords in Subheading (Primary and Secondary focus keywords) [Sub Headings are in H2 tags]
Focus Keyword in Image Alt Attributes (Primary focus keywords)
Maintain the keyword Density [Primary and Secondary Focus Keywords]
Avoid Keyword Stuffing
But a low keyword density is better than a high keyword density.
Very High keyword density may direct google to kick our blog out of search results
No particular perfect keyword density but researchers say 1-1.5% is around sufficient. 
URL Length
Shorter URL Length has a higher chance of ranking in the SERPs.


Linking to External Sources
Out-Bound Links are good.
Linking to External Content with a Followed Link
Linking to Internal Resources
Links to other posts on our website
Links to other subdomain on  our main domain
Links to the main domain form the sub domain
Focus Keyword Uniqueness (Primary focus keywords only)
Using the same keyword in more than one blog posts
Keyword  duplicacy  may also lead google to decide the duplicacy in the content. 
Title Readability:
Spending more time in writing the content and less on writing the title is not a good strategy.
Focus Keyword at the beginning of the SEO title (Only for Primary Keyword)
Number in the Title
Content Readability: 
Focus on the presentation of the content.
Use a Table of Content for the content
Use of Short Paragraphs
Use of Explanatory Images
Use of Media localhost


GIfs
Videos
Animations
Etc.



